- Hey guys.
So I don't know if this is going
to be my new background.
I'm just kind of testing it out.
Let me know in the
comments if you like it.
So a few months ago, I wrote a post
on new media rock stars called,
"How to Design Merch."
And I thought I would
also turn it into a video
since maybe not all of you guys saw it.
So if you want to read the article,
I'm going to link it down below
or you could just watch this video
since I'm going to cover all
of the same things.
And before I get started,
I just want to mention that
the buying books shirt is back in stock
on my DFTBA store.
I know a lot of you guys wanted
to buy one and they've been out of stock
for awhile but now they're back in stock
so go ahead and go forth
and put it on your body.
Oh and before you freak out
that there's no lady's cut,
the new t-shirt/fabric that they're
printing on is more form fitting
so the unisex is sort
of like a lady's cut.
It will look fine don't worry.
You'll look good in it I promise.
Okay, so now on to the video.
I have designed merchandise
for several You Tubers over the years.
John Hank Green, VidCon,
The Lizzie Bennet Diaries,
Squaresville and most
recently Wheezy Waiter.
The most important thing I want to stress,
is to produce something
that you would want to buy.
Don't make mediocre products
where you just throw your name
on some random stuff
that nobody would want
if it wasn't for your influence.
Think about your target audience
and where they shop.
Are you appealing to teenage girls
who love Mod Cloth?
Nerdy kids who like (mumbles) geek
or maybe hipsters who
like Urban Outfitters.
You can make a mood board by pulling
images of products from those sites
that you think that your
audience would love.
So now, think about the role
that you want the product
to play in people's lives.
Do you want to releases a beautiful poster
for your audience to
decorate their room with?
Or start with an obscure inside joke
so that people can wear it
and hope that somebody else recognizes it?
Or do you just want to shout your brand
loud and clear so it
becomes free advertising?
Whatever you decide, just make sure
you build your design out of
existing branding elements
that you already use
in your videos to create
a strong visual link
between your videos and your merchandise.
If you want to learn more about branding,
you can watch this panel that I was on
at the last VidCon where we talked
about branding for an entire hour.
So when you're picking
your merchandise products,
don't be afraid to think outside the box.
I loved Jenna Marbles' stuffed dogs
since their so cute and you might
want to own them anyway, even if you know
nothing about Jenna Marbles
The Foo have a music channel
and they put their logo on guitar picks
and Hannah Hart put the
My Drunk Kitchen logo
on a wine glass.
There's nothing wrong with doing
yet another t-shirt
since those do sell well.
But if you want your
merch to be memorable,
try to be a little creative.
However, be realistic.
It might be worth paying more
to print on v-neck shirts if your
audience is mostly female since those
tend to be a lot more flattering.
But if you don't have a huge audience,
don't shell out a ton of money
making premium merchandise
that might not sell.
Be realistic about the amount of products
you can offer and who
might actually buy them.
And if you have a younger audience,
try to offer a couple
of lower priced items
like stickers or bracelets
since they might not have a ton
of disposable cash to spend.
So now you have your mood board,
you know what kind of products
you want to make but maybe
now you're realizing,
you're not a designer.
If you can tell me what CMYK stands for
or if you don't know the difference
between a vector and a raster file
then maybe you should hire a professional.
I made a video called, "How to hire
"a freelance designer."
Which is all about how to hire
a freelancer designer.
Or you could look in to having
your merch company design
your merchandise for you.
I know that that's a service that
District Lines offers and maybe
some of the others too.
Or if you see merch that you like
from another You Tuber,
just ask them who designed it
and maybe that person will be up
for doing your merch as well.
However, make sure that you can pay
your designers a decent wage.
Your not going to get
a professional t-shirt
design for five dollars so respect
the price quote that you get.
Some designers might be open
to splitting the revenue with you
instead of a flat fee but usually only
if you have a huge channel
and they're sure that it's going to sell
and I think DFTBA is the only company
that offers automatic revenue split
but correct me if some of the other do
and I'm totally wrong.
Or if you really can't afford
to hire a designer,
some designers might be
open to a skilled trade.
Can you write them a theme
song for their channel?
Code their website, build them a new desk.
It never hurts to ask but not everyone
will be open to it so don't be offended
if they say no.
So now you have your merch designs
but where are you going to sell them?
I sell my merch on
DFTBA since I have known
Allen and Hank for years
but it might not be
the best option for everybody.
There are a lot of options.
I have a list right here.
District Lines, Spread
Shirt, Rodeo Arcade,
Big Cartel, ForHumanPeoples, Etsy,
Cafe Press, Society6 to name a few.
Just like shopping for a You Tube network,
compare what cut they're going to take
out of the profits, how
much freedom you have
with your designs and what type
of merchandise you can sell
and just talk to your friends
who use the various sites
and decide which one is right for you.
So now that your merch is up for sale,
it is time to promote it.
This could be a whole other video
all about different types of promotion
but the main point is
don't turn your channel
into a constant infomercial.
Just do a few mentions on
your social media sites.
Include a link in the description
of all of your videos.
If you can include the merch product
in your video organically,
like how Daily Grace
with I mean, it's Grace did with
the "You've been hazed!"
shirt, that's even better.
If you have a lot of friends on You Tube,
you can also send them
your merchandise for free
and then if they decide to put it
in their video, that is
free advertising for you.
And encourage your audience to post
pictures of themselves wearing or holding
your merchandise since any promotion
outside of your own channel's is just
going to reach an even wider audience.
Just a warning though, I am weary of
doing contests for free merch
as soon as you release it.
Your audience will enter the contest
hoping to win for free and then when
they don't win, they
might forget to come back
and actually buy the merchandise.
So that might not be the best
strategy in the world.
So those are about all
of my tips and tricks
on making merchandise.
Asking your audience to actually hand over
money to you is really asking a lot.
So be considerate and respectful of them
by making products that you think
that they really want to own.
So if you want to see a list of some
of my favorite merchandise
by other You Tubers,
I have a new sublime list right down below
where you can check it out
and see why I like them
and if you want to buy
any of my merchandise
including the buying books shirt,
I will link that right down below.
So thank you again so much
for watching and subscribing.
If you liked this video,
you might also like my video,
"How to Design a You Tube Thumbnail."
Or if you want to see my previous video,
I talked about my favorite subreddit's
and if you want to watch all of my
graphic design videos including
how to design a resume and a business card
and a logo and a website,
you can watch all of those
and a play list right here
and I will also link it down below.
That's it for me.
I will see you all at Playlist Live
and also next week for another video.
Bye everyone.
(lively music)